+++
title = "2020 OKRs"
author = "Tim Roberts"
categories = ["okrs", "goals", "personal development", "retrospective"]
type = "post"
description = "Planning my Objectives and their Key Results in 2020"
linktitle = "Link Title"
featured = ""
featuredpath = "img/okr.jpg"
featuredalt = "OKRs and Their Usage"
draft = false
date = 2020-01-01T13:00:56-05:00
+++

> Plans are worthless, planning is invaluable.
>
> US President Eisenhower

As we are nearing 2020, the start of not only a new year but a new decade, I have started to retrospect
on my progress in my personal goals and what I might want to set as New Years Resolutions, or Words of Intention
as the cool kids say now, for 2020 and the coming decade.

But as I tried to take stock in my progress to date, I was having a hard time not only remembering what
it was I was trying to do, but also in what way would I know if I was succeeding or not.

As an example, one of my goals this past year was "To help others grow", which on its face is a very broad,
opaque goal. Even worse, I had no definitions on what "help others grow" meant, how I might track if I am
even doing it or not, or what I think a good metric for success would be.

I think with all of those things stacked against me, I was a huge underdog to being successful. In my eyes,
looking back at it now, I had _no way_ to succeed and I had only prepared myself for _failure_. Even worse,
I feel, I had felt as if I _was_ trying, as if I _was_ succeeding. I spent a _metric fuck ton_ of emotional
effort to helping others but now that I try to quantify, try to judge, try to _learn from my mistakes_,
I have no rubric for _**knowing what those mistakes were**_.

This year, I want to try something different. I want to try to keep track of my goals, specifically keeping
track of _what_ I am expecting myself to do, _what_ success looks like, and _what_ metric or rubric I will use
to decide that. Which is _exactly_ what OKRs are aimed at doing!

## What are OKRs?

[OKRs](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/OKR), or **O**bjective and **K**ey **R**esults is

> a framework for defining and tracking objectives and their outcomes.

which sounds pretty much like what I am lacking today!

We start by defining our _**Objectives**_, or the main, high-level, abitious goals that we want to
accomplish this year, around 3-5. Then, we create _**Key Results**_ for each object, around 2-5 for each.

While the _**Objectives**_ might be opaque or vague, the _**Key Results**_ need to be exteremly clear
on not only the outcome expectation but also the rubric that you will judge success on.

For example, if I had used OKRs this past year, I would have created an object to Help Others Succeed.
Then, I would start thinking of ways that I _believe_ will help me achieve that goal. What are some things
that I could say "If I had done XYZ, I know that I am _progressing_ towards my Objective"?

Perhaps a Key Result might be `Have Open Office Every Tue and Thur from 5-8pm`. Something that I can
say if I did accomplish it or if I didn't and something that I _believe_ will help _progress_ me towards
the goal.

## 2020 OKRs

Given the above, my _**Objectives**_ for 2020 are

- [ ] Have Passive Income
- [ ] Increase Engineering Team Productivity
- [ ] Work Towards Internal Peace

### Objectives

#### Have Passive Income

I want to be free of being a "real adult" and the only way to do that is to be making
money that isn't tied directly to salary/me trading an hour of my life directly for a \$.
I am not sure which income streams will be the best or greatest but I _do_ know that I
need to start _somewhere_ and that is what this Objective is all about.

##### Key Results

- I have produced content on a bi-weekly basis
- I have written a book
- I have money inside of an Investment/Market and not a Savings/Checkings Account

#### Increase Engeineering Team Productivity

If I really want to be a force multiplier, I need to find a way to level-up those around
me and make _them_ as proficent and quick as I am. If I can't do that, I will only ever be
as good as my ego and mental state will allow me, neither of which can be trusted.

I want to ensure that I am actively _trying_ to help them but I know that I can only lead
a horse to water.

##### Key Results

- Have bi-weekly 1:1s with every teammember that wants one
- Teach about React/JavaScript at Book Club every Friday
- Write tutorials/docs specifically for each memeber/the team

#### Work Towards Internal Peace

Life sucks sometimes, ya know? I wish it didn't and I've been upset for awhile that it does,
but it's time to learn to deal with it _somehow_. I want to work towards internal peace without
being one of _those_ people. It will be a fine line to be of the world but not it in but let's
try anyways!

##### Key Results

- Meditate Daily
- Be present on Date Nights
- Journal once a week and retrospect once a month

## Action Items

I talked alot and made a lot of statements about what I was _going_ to do. All of that is empty
if I don't actually _do_ something. Below is a list of things that I need to do in order to
ensure that I am making forward progress.

- [x] Create Blog for Journal
- [ ] Write up possible invesments with current savings
- [ ] Talk to Wife about budget for investments
- [x] Write book outline for React basics
- [ ] Write course outline for JavaScript Mastery
- [ ] Schedule first rounds of 1:1s
